so it's the mid-19th century there are
no movies no tv and
definitely no internet yeah a person
doesn't have many choices for
entertainment
but one man would find a way to thrill
the masses
even if it meant putting his life at
stake his name was william
leonard hunt better known as the great
farini
1852 bowmanville ontario the future
stuntman
traveler and inventor is a 14 year old
boy with big ambitions
he's decided he was made for performing
but his strict parents won't even let
him go to the circus
probably the biggest form of
entertainment at the time
young willie starts practicing with a
copper wire in his backyard
he trains himself to walk across it he
also puts together
a makeshift trapeze when the traveling
circus comes to town
willie knows there's no way he can miss
it the performances
fascinate him so he starts practicing
acrobatics
he masters rope walking tumbling and
carrying heavy objects
his father is terrified by the idea that
his son could waste his whole life doing
this nonsense
so he strikes a deal with young willie
he can continue
having fun with his acrobatics if he
goes into medical studies
but when willy is 21 years old his
father takes a trip to england
with his old man gone now is his chance
a local fair committee comes to see the
young performer
they need to find out if he can tight
rope walk over the ganaraska river
you see local fares were losing their
touch the same old performances
same food same everything this guy could
be that breath of exciting fresh air the
fair
desperately needed he could be the man
walking in the sky
huh it's a done deal william hunt had
his awe-inspiring performance
now he just needed a name to do the act
justice and leave an
imprint in people's minds he once read
about an adventurous italian physician
by the name of luigi carlo farini
inspired
he calls himself senor farini later
the great farini the rope was tied from
one four-story building to another
70 feet across the ganaranska the local
newspaper announced this performance
calling it the grand ascension it was a
hit
yet farini wasn't the greatest he was
still number
two to the great blondin who'd walked a
tightrope stretch over a thousand feet
across the niagara river
mere months before the ganarenska stunt
farini knew
he had to up his game he admired blondin
but he surely wanted to outdo
him blunden was a tough act to overcome
more experience than farini and 14 years
his senior
blondin didn't just do the stunts he
made it fun
he was an entertainer in the finest
sense he'd walk across the rope
blindfolded with his hands cuffed
carrying his manager pushing a
wheelbarrow or with a sack over his body
the crazier the better or he'd casually
stop in the middle of the rope to cook
an omelet
and treat passengers on the niagara
tourist boats below
a year later in 1860 ferrini performed
the same walk across the niagara
he could pull off the same moves covered
with a sack
carrying someone doing somersaults and
so on
but farini one upped his competitor by
balancing on his head
hanging from the rope by his toes and
carrying a wash tub on his back
while walking he even lowered a bucket
into the river to gather
some water for the washing blondin
asserted that no one could perform his
stunts
so senor farini challenged his idol
several times
wanting to compete over the niagara the
great blondin
never accepted any of those challenges
one being that farini would carry
blondin
halfway down the rope and vice versa the
rest of the way
no matter what farini did he could never
get out of the great blondin's shadow
blondin was number one even in the eyes
of royalty
the prince of wales and future king of
england was blown away by blondin's
performance
he snubbed at ferendi even though
blondin
kept proving to be a great performer and
held on to the number one spot
farini actually made more money blondin
needed to pass the hat to get money
farini though was a natural at business
he managed to make an arrangement with
regional railroads
he'd get a percentage of the tickets
sold for each train
heading to niagara to see his show
meanwhile
back at home the more the young man
achieved his parents
only got more disappointed in him he
wasn't the doctor his father wanted him
to become without the support of his
family
and losing the battle for the number one
spot with blondin
the great farini charged ahead on his
own
but not for long in 1861
the 23 year old got married to a beauty
named
mary osborne the life of an acrobat's
wife is hardly a usual one
the man trained her to hold on to his
back during tightrope walks
and she became his performance partner
until
one tragic day the following year when
mary lifted one hand to wave at the
cheering crowd
she lost her balance and slipped but
farini just managed to grab onto her
dress with one hand
as he was pulling his young wife up fate
once again decided otherwise
her dress suddenly ripped and she fell
farini was in shambles
but as they say time heals all wounds
things finally took a turn for the
better in 1870
when he found the eighth wonder of the
world lulu
a young acrobat from paris she performed
in a 4
000 seat theater on the champs-elysees
leaping 25 feet in the air that would
later grow to an
unbelievable 40 feet they've become an
unstoppable duo
the two traveled to england then to the
states dropping jaws wherever they
performed
during one performance farini nearly
lost his precious lulu
on that fateful day the bar slipped from
the acrobat's hand
and she fell to the ground she was
rushed to the hospital and
luckily she survived but then came the
earth-shattering reveal lulu
was in fact farini's son in disguise
after the sun got better he continued to
perform
but as himself now the royal westminster
aquarium in london
was once famous as a huge entertainment
center it ran into some financial
difficulties
so they asked farini to help for some
time he worked as an inventor
and came up with some crazy machinery to
thrill spectators
he made and patented the first cannon
that could fire people
right up in the air his human cannonball
was a woman named zazelle
she became as famous as lulu before long
they soon left for america to join the
greatest show on earth
zazell was the main star
farini was quite the globetrotter one of
his trips brought him to the kalahari
desert in 1885
that's where he became the first known
westerner to cross this desert on foot
and lived to tell the tale that he did
he wrote a whole book about it
he claimed to have found the lost city
of kalahari though that's not official
since he never proved it
his son joined him on that trip making
sketches and taking photographs of their
adventures
even at 50 years old he longed for the
show
in 1888 he promoted aeronaut thomas
scott baldwin's daring 3000 foot
parachute jump from a hot air balloon
some people say he must be one of the
first to have ever used a parachute
truly a leap of faith stunts weren't
farini's only interests
he took up oil painting later in life
and turned out to be astonishing at it
his works being featured in the national
exhibition
he also had a knack for botany whenever
he traveled
he'd bring back bulbs and seeds as
souvenirs
he even published two books on plants
and flowers
thanks to a life of travel he could
speak seven languages
well enough that he even translated some
stories from german newspapers
granted he had the help of his wife a
german concert pianist named anna
mueller
who he'd wed in 1886. as farini got
older
he started devoting his time and energy
into other projects
he was a successful investor in the
mining railway and other industries
he also got serious about inventing he
had over 30 patents for creations like
can packing machines parts of steam
boilers and engines
as well as gardening and theater
equipment
a fortune teller once told farini he'd
lived to c 100 years
she was close enough he made it to 90
and probably wasn't bored
a single day in his life